Systemdokumentasjon.rst, before:

*******************
Systemdokumentasjon
*******************

Multilingual support
====================

In version 2.3.0, multilingual support was added to Arkade 5. These are the supported languages in the latest version:

+--------------------+-------------------+
| Language           | Value required by |
|                    | CLI ``-l`` param  |
+====================+===================+
| English            | en                |
+--------------------+-------------------+
| Norwegian, Bokmål  | nb                |
+--------------------+-------------------+

Source code
===========

The source code is located at the GitHub-repository: https://github.com/arkivverket/arkade5/

Arkade is developed with .Net and C#. The solution-file (.sln) is compatible with Visual Studio 2015 and above. 

Overview
--------
Arkade provides mainly three different functions: 

* Archive testing
* Report generator
* Package creator

These functions are exposed in the API and the graphical user interface project is also using the API-class to interact with the core functions.

.. image:: img/project-overview.png

Below is a brief description of each project in the solution. 


Arkivverket.Arkade.CLI
-----------------------
This project provides a cross-platform command line interface for the Arkade 5 software. It is built on the .NET Core framework, and based on the CommandLineParser and Serilog NuGet packages.

Arkivverket.Arkade.CLI.Tests
-----------------------
This project contains the unit tests and other tests classes for the CLI project. Unit tests are created with xUnit. 

Arkivverket.Arkade.Core
-----------------------
This is the core library with functions for testing archive extractions, generating reports and creating SIP/AIP-packages.

The most notable classes in the core project are the test engines, package creator and report generator:

* Arkivverket.Arkade.Core.Base.Noark5.Noark5TestEngine
* Arkivverket.Arkade.Core.Base.Addml.AddmlDatasetTestEngine
* Arkivverket.Arkade.Core.Base.InformationPackageCreator
* Arkivverket.Arkade.Core.Report.HtmlReportGenerator

A short description of the packages in the core project:

**Base** - Domain classes

**Bundled** - Software which Arkade bundles

**ExternalModels** - Classes generated from xml schemas

**Identify** - Identification classes for reading and identifying an archive extraction

**Logging** - Classes related to logging of events during testing of archive

**Metadata** - Contains classes related to creating metadata files for archive extractions

**Report** - Classes for generating reports

**Resource** - Various resource files, language files, images etc.

**Testing** - Contains test classes for testing archive extractions

**Util** - General utilities

Arkivverket.Arkade.Core.Tests
-----------------------
This project contains the unit tests and other tests classes for the Core project. Unit tests are created with xUnit. 

Arkivverket.Arkade.GUI
----------------------

This project provides the graphical user interface of the Arkade 5 software. It is based on WPF, Windows Presentation Foundation. 
Together with WPF, the application uses the Prism_ library (.Core, .Unity and .Wpf NuGet Packages) for creating a loosly coupled, maintainable and testable XAML application.

The design and layout is based on Google's Material_ Design. This has been implemented with the help of the `MaterialDesignThemes-library <http://materialdesigninxaml.net/>`_. Note that the user interface is only inspired by the material design, not neccessary strictly following it in every situation.

.. _Prism: https://github.com/PrismLibrary/Prism
.. _Material: https://material.google.com/

Setup
-----
This is the setup project for creating installation binaries. The `Wix-toolset <http://wixtoolset.org/>`_ is needed to be able to use the Setup-project. 

Signing the installation file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In order to sign the msi file, you need the **signtool.exe** on your computer. This can be installed together with the Visual Studio. The ClickOnce Publishing package contains this tools.

Signing of the installation file is done by the continuous integration server. Signing is performed with a certificate provided by Arkivverket. The following command is run to sign the installation file::

    "C:\Program Files (x86)\Windows Kits\8.1\bin\x64\signtool.exe" sign /f PATH_TO_CERTIFICATE_FILE.pfx /p CERTIFICATE_PASSWORD src\Setup\bin\Release\Setup.msi

Porting to other platforms
--------------------------
The graphical user interface can be a challenge to port, currently Microsoft has no plans for porting the Windows Presentation Framework to other platforms. There exists some third party packages for creating cross platform GUIs with .NET. AvaloniaUI_ seems to be the one most freqently mentioned.

.. _AvaloniaUI: https://avaloniaui.net/

Arkade API
==========

The Arkade project provides API-classes for simplified use of the core functionality. There are two API-classes included: Arkade.cs and ArkadeApi.cs. They are located inside the namespace **Arkivverket.Arkade.Core.Base**. Both classes provides the same functionality, the difference is that Autofac_ is used for dependency injection in the Arkade class. The ArkadeApi class must be instantiated manually. There is an Autofac module that can be used, **Arkivverket.Arkade.Core.Util.ArkadeAutofacModule**, if the client software already is using Autofac for dependency injection. 

.. _Autofac: https://autofac.org/

This is the signature of the Arkade API class:

.. image:: img/api-signature.png

There are three **RunTests** methods that runs for a given archive, either from a directory structure, a SIP/AIP package file (.tar) or directly from a **TestSession**-object. After the tests are run, the former two **RunTests**-methods returns a **TestSession**. The **TestSession** class contains all necessary information for creating a package with tests results or generating a report. 

A simple test run may look like this:

.. code-block:: C#
   
   var arkade = new Arkade();
   var testSession = arkade.RunTests(ArchiveFile.Read("c:\\tmp\\ExampleArchive.tar", ArchiveType.Noark5));
   arkade.SaveReport(testSession, new FileInfo("c:\\tmp\TestReport.html"));
   arkade.CreatePackage(testSession, PackageType.SubmissionInformationPackage);

The **TestSession** class contains various information about the testing that has been done. The TestSuite property contains a list of all tests that has been run and their results. 

ADDML
=====

Arkade is built to support ADDML version 8.2. 

List of supported ADDML processes:

* A.01 Analyse_CountRecords - Antall poster
* A.02 Analyse_CountChars - Antall tegn
* A.03 Analyse_FindExtremeRecords - Lengste og kortest post
* A.04 Analyse_CountRecordDefinitionOccurences - Antall poster for posttype
* A.05 Analyse_AllFrequenceList - Koder brukt i datasettet
* A.06 Analyse_CrossTable
* A.07 Analyse_CountNULL - Antall null-verdi for felt
* A.08 Analyse_FindExtremeValues - Lengste og korteste verdi for felt
* A.09 Analyse_FindMinMaxValue - Laveste og høyeste verdi for felt
* A.10 Analyse_FrequenceList - Antall forekomster av verdier for felt
* A.11 Control_AllFixedLength - Kontroll av oppgitt lengde for alle posttyper
* A.12 Control_NumberOfRecords - Antall og kontroll av antall poster
* A.13 Control_FixedLength - Kontroll av oppgitt lengde for posttype
* A.14 Control_NotUsedRecordDef - Kontroll om posttype benyttes
* A.15 Control_Key - Kontroll av unik nøkkel
* A.16 Control_ForeignKey - Kontroll av fremmednøkkel
* A.17 Control_MinLength - Kontroll av oppgitt minste lengde
* A.18 Control_MaxLength - Kontroll av oppgitt største lengde
* A.19 Control_DataFormat - Kontroll av oppgitt dataformat for felt
* A.20 Control_NotNull - Kontroll av null-verdier i felt
* A.21 Control_Uniqueness - Kontroll av unike verdier i felt
* A.22 Control_Codes - Koder som benyttes i felt
* A.32 Control_Birthno - Kontroll av fødselsnummer i felt
* A.33 Control_Organisationno - Kontroll av organisasjonsnummer i felt
* A.34 Control_Accountno - Kontroll av kontonummer i felt
* A.35 Control_Date_Value - Kontroll av dato i felt
* A.36 Control_Boolean_Value - Kontroll av boolsk verdi i felt



NOARK 5
=======

Arkade supports the NOARK5 standard.

List of implemented Noark5 Tests:

* N5.01 - Kontroll av at strukturfiler som er listet i arkivuttrekk.xml finnes i pakken
* N5.02 - Kontroll av sjekk-summene for filene arkivuttrekk.xml og addml.xsd
* N5.03 - Kontroll av sjekk-summene for XML-filene og XML-skjemaene i avleveringspakken
* N5.04 - Antall arkiver i arkivstrukturen
* N5.05 - Antall arkivdeler i arkivstrukturen
* N5.06 - Arkivdelen[e]s status i arkivstrukturen
* N5.07 - Antall klassifikasjonssystemer i arkivstrukturen
* N5.08 - Antall klasser i arkivstrukturen
* N5.09 - Antall klasser uten underklasser eller mapper i det primære klassifikasjonssystemet i arkivstrukturen
* N5.10 - Antall mapper i arkivstrukturen
* N5.11 - Antall mapper for hvert år i arkivstrukturen
* N5.12 - Kontroll på at mappene bare er knyttet til klasser uten underklasser i arkivstrukturen
* N5.13 - Antall mapper som er klassifisert med hver enkelt klasse i arkivstrukturen
* N5.14 - Antall mapper uten undermapper eller registreringer i arkivstrukturen
* N5.15 - Saksmappenes status i arkivstrukturen
* N5.16 - Antall registreringer i arkivstrukturen
* N5.17 - Antall forskjellige journalposttyper i arkivstrukturen
* N5.18 - Antall registreringer for hvert år i arkivstrukturen
* N5.19 - Kontroll på at registreringer bare er knyttet til klasser uten underklasser i arkivstrukturen
* N5.20 - Antall registreringer som er klassifisert med hver enkelt klasse i arkivstrukturen
* N5.21 - Antall registreringer uten dokumentbeskrivelse i arkivstrukturen
* N5.22 - Journalpostenes status i arkivstrukturen
* N5.23 - Antall dokumentbeskrivelser i arkivstrukturen
* N5.24 - Antall dokumentbeskrivelser uten dokumentobjekt i arkivstrukturen
* N5.25 - Dokumentbeskrivelsenes status i arkivstrukturen
* N5.26 - Antall dokumentobjekter i arkivstrukturen
* N5.27 - Start- og sluttdato for dokumentene i arkivstrukturen
* N5.28 - Antall dokumentfiler i arkivuttrekket
* N5.29 - Antall dokumenter i arkivuttrekket fordelt på dokumentformat
* N5.30 - Kontroll av sjekk-summen for hver dokumentfil i arkivuttrekket
* N5.32 - Kontroll på om dokumentobjektene i arkivstrukturen refererer til eksisterende
* N5.33 - Kontroll på at det ikke finnes dokumentfiler i arkivuttrekket som mangler referanse fra dokumentobjektet 
* N5.34 - Antall dokumentfiler som blir referert til av flere enn ett dokumentobjekt
* N5.35 - Antall saksparter i arkivstrukturen
* N5.36 - Antall merknader i arkivstrukturen
* N5.37 - Antall kryssreferanser i arkivstrukturen
* N5.38 - Antall presedenser i arkivstrukturen
* N5.39 - Antall korrespondanseparter i arkivstrukturen
* N5.40 - Antall avskrivninger i arkivstrukturen
* N5.41 - Antall dokumentflyter i arkivstrukturen
* N5.42 - Eventuelt - antall skjerminger i arkivstrukturen
* N5.43 - Eventuelt - antall graderinger i arkivstrukturen
* N5.44 - Eventuelt - antall kassasjonsvedtak i arkivstrukturen
* N5.45 - Eventuelt - antall utførte kassasjoner i arkivstrukturen
* N5.46 - Eventuelt - antall konverterte dokumenter i arkivstrukturen
* N5.47 - Kontroll av system-identifikasjonene i arkivstrukturen
* N5.48 - Kontroll av referansene til arkivdel i arkivstrukturen
* N5.51 - Kontroll av referansene til sekundær klassifikasjon i arkivstrukturen
* N5.59 - Antall journalposter i arkivuttrekket
* N5.60 - Start- og sluttdato i arkivuttrekket
* N5.61 - Antall endringer i endringsloggen
* N5.62 - Kontroll av referansene i endringsloggen
* N5.63 - Kontroll av at XML-element inneholder en verdi

Commit message:

Add downloadable schemas for the XML and JSON report formats
ARKADE-523

Systemdokumentasjon.rst, after:

*******************
Systemdokumentasjon
*******************

Multilingual support
====================

In version 2.3.0, multilingual support was added to Arkade 5. These are the supported languages in the latest version:

+--------------------+-------------------+
| Language           | Value required by |
|                    | CLI ``-l`` param  |
+====================+===================+
| English            | en                |
+--------------------+-------------------+
| Norwegian, Bokmål  | nb                |
+--------------------+-------------------+

Source code
===========

The source code is located at the GitHub-repository: https://github.com/arkivverket/arkade5/

Arkade is developed with .Net and C#. The solution-file (.sln) is compatible with Visual Studio 2015 and above. 

Overview
--------
Arkade provides mainly three different functions: 

* Archive testing
* Report generator
* Package creator

These functions are exposed in the API and the graphical user interface project is also using the API-class to interact with the core functions.

.. image:: img/project-overview.png

Below is a brief description of each project in the solution. 


Arkivverket.Arkade.CLI
-----------------------
This project provides a cross-platform command line interface for the Arkade 5 software. It is built on the .NET Core framework, and based on the CommandLineParser and Serilog NuGet packages.

Arkivverket.Arkade.CLI.Tests
-----------------------
This project contains the unit tests and other tests classes for the CLI project. Unit tests are created with xUnit. 

Arkivverket.Arkade.Core
-----------------------
This is the core library with functions for testing archive extractions, generating reports and creating SIP/AIP-packages.

The most notable classes in the core project are the test engines, package creator and report generator:

* Arkivverket.Arkade.Core.Base.Noark5.Noark5TestEngine
* Arkivverket.Arkade.Core.Base.Addml.AddmlDatasetTestEngine
* Arkivverket.Arkade.Core.Base.InformationPackageCreator
* Arkivverket.Arkade.Core.Report.HtmlReportGenerator

A short description of the packages in the core project:

**Base** - Domain classes

**Bundled** - Software which Arkade bundles

**ExternalModels** - Classes generated from xml schemas

**Identify** - Identification classes for reading and identifying an archive extraction

**Logging** - Classes related to logging of events during testing of archive

**Metadata** - Contains classes related to creating metadata files for archive extractions

**Report** - Classes for generating reports

**Resource** - Various resource files, language files, images etc.

**Testing** - Contains test classes for testing archive extractions

**Util** - General utilities

Arkivverket.Arkade.Core.Tests
-----------------------
This project contains the unit tests and other tests classes for the Core project. Unit tests are created with xUnit. 

Arkivverket.Arkade.GUI
----------------------

This project provides the graphical user interface of the Arkade 5 software. It is based on WPF, Windows Presentation Foundation. 
Together with WPF, the application uses the Prism_ library (.Core, .Unity and .Wpf NuGet Packages) for creating a loosly coupled, maintainable and testable XAML application.

The design and layout is based on Google's Material_ Design. This has been implemented with the help of the `MaterialDesignThemes-library <http://materialdesigninxaml.net/>`_. Note that the user interface is only inspired by the material design, not neccessary strictly following it in every situation.

.. _Prism: https://github.com/PrismLibrary/Prism
.. _Material: https://material.google.com/

Setup
-----
This is the setup project for creating installation binaries. The `Wix-toolset <http://wixtoolset.org/>`_ is needed to be able to use the Setup-project. 

Signing the installation file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In order to sign the msi file, you need the **signtool.exe** on your computer. This can be installed together with the Visual Studio. The ClickOnce Publishing package contains this tools.

Signing of the installation file is done by the continuous integration server. Signing is performed with a certificate provided by Arkivverket. The following command is run to sign the installation file::

    "C:\Program Files (x86)\Windows Kits\8.1\bin\x64\signtool.exe" sign /f PATH_TO_CERTIFICATE_FILE.pfx /p CERTIFICATE_PASSWORD src\Setup\bin\Release\Setup.msi

Porting to other platforms
--------------------------
The graphical user interface can be a challenge to port, currently Microsoft has no plans for porting the Windows Presentation Framework to other platforms. There exists some third party packages for creating cross platform GUIs with .NET. AvaloniaUI_ seems to be the one most freqently mentioned.

.. _AvaloniaUI: https://avaloniaui.net/

Arkade API
==========

The Arkade project provides API-classes for simplified use of the core functionality. There are two API-classes included: Arkade.cs and ArkadeApi.cs. They are located inside the namespace **Arkivverket.Arkade.Core.Base**. Both classes provides the same functionality, the difference is that Autofac_ is used for dependency injection in the Arkade class. The ArkadeApi class must be instantiated manually. There is an Autofac module that can be used, **Arkivverket.Arkade.Core.Util.ArkadeAutofacModule**, if the client software already is using Autofac for dependency injection. 

.. _Autofac: https://autofac.org/

This is the signature of the Arkade API class:

.. image:: img/api-signature.png

There are three **RunTests** methods that runs for a given archive, either from a directory structure, a SIP/AIP package file (.tar) or directly from a **TestSession**-object. After the tests are run, the former two **RunTests**-methods returns a **TestSession**. The **TestSession** class contains all necessary information for creating a package with tests results or generating a report. 

A simple test run may look like this:

.. code-block:: C#
   
   var arkade = new Arkade();
   var testSession = arkade.RunTests(ArchiveFile.Read("c:\\tmp\\ExampleArchive.tar", ArchiveType.Noark5));
   arkade.SaveReport(testSession, new FileInfo("c:\\tmp\TestReport.html"));
   arkade.CreatePackage(testSession, PackageType.SubmissionInformationPackage);

The **TestSession** class contains various information about the testing that has been done. The TestSuite property contains a list of all tests that has been run and their results. 

Test Report
===========

Arkade produces a report with test results in the following formats: HTML, PDF, JSON and XML.

Schemas
-------

Schemas for JSON and XML reports are available from the below links:

| **Arkade version 2.4.0**
| :download:`testReport.schema.json <resources/testReport.schema.json>`
| :download:`testReport.xsd <resources/testReport.xsd>`

ADDML
=====

Arkade is built to support ADDML version 8.2. 

List of supported ADDML processes:

* A.01 Analyse_CountRecords - Antall poster
* A.02 Analyse_CountChars - Antall tegn
* A.03 Analyse_FindExtremeRecords - Lengste og kortest post
* A.04 Analyse_CountRecordDefinitionOccurences - Antall poster for posttype
* A.05 Analyse_AllFrequenceList - Koder brukt i datasettet
* A.06 Analyse_CrossTable
* A.07 Analyse_CountNULL - Antall null-verdi for felt
* A.08 Analyse_FindExtremeValues - Lengste og korteste verdi for felt
* A.09 Analyse_FindMinMaxValue - Laveste og høyeste verdi for felt
* A.10 Analyse_FrequenceList - Antall forekomster av verdier for felt
* A.11 Control_AllFixedLength - Kontroll av oppgitt lengde for alle posttyper
* A.12 Control_NumberOfRecords - Antall og kontroll av antall poster
* A.13 Control_FixedLength - Kontroll av oppgitt lengde for posttype
* A.14 Control_NotUsedRecordDef - Kontroll om posttype benyttes
* A.15 Control_Key - Kontroll av unik nøkkel
* A.16 Control_ForeignKey - Kontroll av fremmednøkkel
* A.17 Control_MinLength - Kontroll av oppgitt minste lengde
* A.18 Control_MaxLength - Kontroll av oppgitt største lengde
* A.19 Control_DataFormat - Kontroll av oppgitt dataformat for felt
* A.20 Control_NotNull - Kontroll av null-verdier i felt
* A.21 Control_Uniqueness - Kontroll av unike verdier i felt
* A.22 Control_Codes - Koder som benyttes i felt
* A.32 Control_Birthno - Kontroll av fødselsnummer i felt
* A.33 Control_Organisationno - Kontroll av organisasjonsnummer i felt
* A.34 Control_Accountno - Kontroll av kontonummer i felt
* A.35 Control_Date_Value - Kontroll av dato i felt
* A.36 Control_Boolean_Value - Kontroll av boolsk verdi i felt



NOARK 5
=======

Arkade supports the NOARK5 standard.

List of implemented Noark5 Tests:

* N5.01 - Kontroll av at strukturfiler som er listet i arkivuttrekk.xml finnes i pakken
* N5.02 - Kontroll av sjekk-summene for filene arkivuttrekk.xml og addml.xsd
* N5.03 - Kontroll av sjekk-summene for XML-filene og XML-skjemaene i avleveringspakken
* N5.04 - Antall arkiver i arkivstrukturen
* N5.05 - Antall arkivdeler i arkivstrukturen
* N5.06 - Arkivdelen[e]s status i arkivstrukturen
* N5.07 - Antall klassifikasjonssystemer i arkivstrukturen
* N5.08 - Antall klasser i arkivstrukturen
* N5.09 - Antall klasser uten underklasser eller mapper i det primære klassifikasjonssystemet i arkivstrukturen
* N5.10 - Antall mapper i arkivstrukturen
* N5.11 - Antall mapper for hvert år i arkivstrukturen
* N5.12 - Kontroll på at mappene bare er knyttet til klasser uten underklasser i arkivstrukturen
* N5.13 - Antall mapper som er klassifisert med hver enkelt klasse i arkivstrukturen
* N5.14 - Antall mapper uten undermapper eller registreringer i arkivstrukturen
* N5.15 - Saksmappenes status i arkivstrukturen
* N5.16 - Antall registreringer i arkivstrukturen
* N5.17 - Antall forskjellige journalposttyper i arkivstrukturen
* N5.18 - Antall registreringer for hvert år i arkivstrukturen
* N5.19 - Kontroll på at registreringer bare er knyttet til klasser uten underklasser i arkivstrukturen
* N5.20 - Antall registreringer som er klassifisert med hver enkelt klasse i arkivstrukturen
* N5.21 - Antall registreringer uten dokumentbeskrivelse i arkivstrukturen
* N5.22 - Journalpostenes status i arkivstrukturen
* N5.23 - Antall dokumentbeskrivelser i arkivstrukturen
* N5.24 - Antall dokumentbeskrivelser uten dokumentobjekt i arkivstrukturen
* N5.25 - Dokumentbeskrivelsenes status i arkivstrukturen
* N5.26 - Antall dokumentobjekter i arkivstrukturen
* N5.27 - Start- og sluttdato for dokumentene i arkivstrukturen
* N5.28 - Antall dokumentfiler i arkivuttrekket
* N5.29 - Antall dokumenter i arkivuttrekket fordelt på dokumentformat
* N5.30 - Kontroll av sjekk-summen for hver dokumentfil i arkivuttrekket
* N5.32 - Kontroll på om dokumentobjektene i arkivstrukturen refererer til eksisterende
* N5.33 - Kontroll på at det ikke finnes dokumentfiler i arkivuttrekket som mangler referanse fra dokumentobjektet 
* N5.34 - Antall dokumentfiler som blir referert til av flere enn ett dokumentobjekt
* N5.35 - Antall saksparter i arkivstrukturen
* N5.36 - Antall merknader i arkivstrukturen
* N5.37 - Antall kryssreferanser i arkivstrukturen
* N5.38 - Antall presedenser i arkivstrukturen
* N5.39 - Antall korrespondanseparter i arkivstrukturen
* N5.40 - Antall avskrivninger i arkivstrukturen
* N5.41 - Antall dokumentflyter i arkivstrukturen
* N5.42 - Eventuelt - antall skjerminger i arkivstrukturen
* N5.43 - Eventuelt - antall graderinger i arkivstrukturen
* N5.44 - Eventuelt - antall kassasjonsvedtak i arkivstrukturen
* N5.45 - Eventuelt - antall utførte kassasjoner i arkivstrukturen
* N5.46 - Eventuelt - antall konverterte dokumenter i arkivstrukturen
* N5.47 - Kontroll av system-identifikasjonene i arkivstrukturen
* N5.48 - Kontroll av referansene til arkivdel i arkivstrukturen
* N5.51 - Kontroll av referansene til sekundær klassifikasjon i arkivstrukturen
* N5.59 - Antall journalposter i arkivuttrekket
* N5.60 - Start- og sluttdato i arkivuttrekket
* N5.61 - Antall endringer i endringsloggen
* N5.62 - Kontroll av referansene i endringsloggen
* N5.63 - Kontroll av at XML-element inneholder en verdi
